                                                                                                                          r\zpa                               
                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                          Vl_l /\                             
                                                                                                                          COMISION DE ENERGIA DE PUERTO RICO  
                                                 COMMONWEALTH OF PUERTO RICO                                              2    0    14                        
                                                PUERTO RICO ENERGY COMMISSION                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                              
             IN RE: TEMPORARY OVERSIGHT MEASURES                          CASE NO.: CEPR-MI-2017-0008                                                         
                RELATED TO THE PROCUREMENT AND                                                                                                                
              MANAGEMENT OF RESTORATION SERVICES                          SUBJECT: Order identifying and                                                      
                           BY PREPA                                       implementing temporary oversight                                                    
                                                                          measures.                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                              
                                                            ORDER                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                              
Through this Order, the Puerto Rico Energy Commission ("Commission”) identifies                                                                              
and implements a set of measures, requirements and directives aimed at ensuring optimal                                                                      
accountability, prudency and reasonability in the procurement and prospective                                                                                
management of restoration support services by the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority                                                                       
("PREPA”) in the wake of Hurricane Maria.                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                             
These measures are taken to ensure PREPA funds allocated towards the restoration                                                                             
and recovery of the Island’s electric grid---whether these funds come ultimately from PREPA                                                                  
customers, Commonwealth taxpayers or federal taxpayers---are spent effectively and                                                                           
efficiently, producing measurable and quantifiable results. Another objective is to avoid                                                                    
wasteful, fraudulent or abusive practices, by holding PREPA and its contractors and sub¬                                                                     
contractors accountable for the quality and efficiency of their work. The measures taken                                                                     
herein are consistent with the Commission's overall goal and statutory mandate of inducing                                                                   
administrative and financial discipline to PREPA’s operations and culture; they are not                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                             
meant to duplicate any efforts by any other state or federal agency, but rather to support                                                                   
such efforts.1 Finally, as detailed below, the measures and directives identified herein are                                                                 
necessary and essential, in light of both recent and historical examples of doubtful PREPA                                                                   
contracting determinations. They are especially necessary in light PREPA’s insistence, in                                                                    
testimony and briefs presented in the rate case petition proceeding and in arguments to state                                                                
and federal courts, that the Commission has no power to review and prevent PREPA’s                                                                           
spending before it occurs; but rather, once that spending has occurred, must approve rates                                                                   
that reflect those costs, even if wasteful or imprudent.2                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                              
1    The Commission recognizes that the Fiscal Agency and Financial Advisory Authority ("AAFAF” for its Spanish                                              
acronym) and the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico ("FOMB”) also may conduct some                                                     
type of contract review. Those reviews do not relieve the Commission of its duty under Act 57-2014 to ensure                                                 
that rates are just and reasonable generally, and do not include imprudent costs specifically. The Commission                                                
is pleased to coordinate with both AFFAF and FOMB to avoid duplication of effort but it must and will carry out                                              
its independent legal obligation. To that end, the Commission contacted representatives of AFFAF and FOMB                                                    
in May 2017, and FOMB again in November 2017, providing a systematic path to coordination. The Commission                                                    
is awaiting their response but in the meantime must and will use its unique expertise and experience with                                                    
PREPA, demonstrated in numerous prior orders---most importantly the Transition Charge, the Integrated                                                        
Resource Plan and Rate Case---to protect Puerto Rico's citizens.                                                                                             
2    See, in general, Part Four of the Commission’s Final Resolution and Order, In Re: Review of Rates of the Puerto                                         
                                                                                                                                                             
Rico Electric Power Authority, CEPR-AP-2015-0001, January 10, 2017 at pp. 147-156 ("Resolution and Order                                                     
                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                              
                                                       1                                                                                                      
