Case:17 -04780 -LTS

Doc# :794 Filed :04/09/18 Entered :04/09/18 15:42:06
Document
Page 5 of 9

Desc: Main

Enlries regarding WEH and submission ofils invoices appear approximalely 5 limes. By contrnsl,
enlries related to Cobra appear approximately 140 times.
L IMITE D OBJECTION

I 5.

WEH does nol dispute lhal Filsinger has undertaken significant work lo assist

PREPA during 1his case. However, WEH believes ii is importanl for all slakeholders in lhis case
to be made aware of the failure of PREPA's professionals to devole adequate time and allention
during the Application Period lo activities which would provide a significanl benelil 10 lhc cslalc.
16.

WEH has provided all of the informationrequestedby PREPA and ils professionals

for sub1nissionto FEMA. WEH has repeatedly offered lo assisl with whatever is necessary to
complete the submissions. WEH has, at its own considerable expense, reworked docmnentalion at
PREPA's request for the PEMA sub1nission,even when PR.EPA's professionals had the necessary
documentation in its possession. V,IEHcommitted these resources and incurred these expenses
under assurances fron1 PREPA and its professionals that doing so would expedite PREPA's
preparation of the FEMA submission. Additionally, PREPA's professionals requested that WEH
provide copies of292 invoices that WEH had previouslysubmitted to PREPA rather than seeking
such invoices from PREPA's own records. Despite WEll's pro1npt coopcrntion with the requests
for information and documentation fro111PREPA's professionals, PREPA and its professionals
have not completed the necessary documentation for submission of WEH's invoices to FEMA and
have not even committed to give WEH a date by which the subn1issionswill occur.
17.

Section 316 of l'ROMESA requires that compensation sought by professionals be

ofbenelil to the estate and the creditors, and be reasonable. It is not in the benefit of the estate nor
reasonable for professionals to neglect doing work which would pay inunediatc and significant
dividends to the estate and its creditors. As reflected in the Fee Application, Filsinger has pursued

5
4847 -7466 •4289 .3

