continue providing services until certain milestones were completed, As of the date of this Order, Whitefish
continues to provide services to PREPA.
3 While PREPA announced its intention to cancel the Whitefish contract on October 29, 2017, Whitefish would
1. BACKGROUND
the ones furthered through this Order.
Removal, Case No. 17-04780 (LTS), Adversary Case No. 17-00256 (Docket Entry No. 279).
contractor. Examples include, but are not limited to, the quality of the products prepared by
t http://cb.pr/whitefish-no-se-va-hasta-que-entregue-la-linea-de-aguirre-y-aguas-buenas/. This amount is
expected to increase, given, as noted before, that Whitefish would continue providing services to PREPA until
PREPA's contractors Siements PTI and Navigant Consulting, Inc. (submitted as part of
5The Puerto Rico Energy Transformation and RELIEF Act, as amended.
the completion of certain milestones.
In ideal circumstances, the Commission would ask for comments on procedu &; g6 1 4
the lack of performance metrics to ensure the quality of the work performed by the
announced its intention to cancel the Whitefish contract on October 29, 2017.In the 12-day
on PREPA's Rates'') and Part II of the Commission's Final Resolution addressing PREPA's Motion for
PREPA's electric grid. Less than two weeks later, amid a myriad of controversies, PREPA
whether such terms and conditions are in PREPA's and ratepayer's best interest), as well as
sw i
Throughout many of its proceedings, the Commission or its consultants have raised concerns
Reconsideration, CEPR-AP-2015-0001, March 8, 2017 at pp. 14-34. See also, PREPA's Verified Motion for
period in between, PREPA incurred at least $20.7 million of costs associated with this
Reconsideration of Provisions of the Final Resolution and Order, filed ]anuary 30, 2017, and PREPA's Appeal to
rrtpc
regarding the terms and conditions agreed to by PREPA when entering into contracts (and
('Whitefish'') for the provision of certain services related to the restoration and recovery of
Whitefish is not the only instance in which PREPA's actions with regards to the
practical abilities. The present emergency does not allow for taking extra time with such
ensure prudent, least-cost contracting, then craft requirements that align with PREPA's
ZC'7ZZ2====--=---+ --+=
On October 17, 2017, PREPA signed a contract with Whitefish Energy Holdings, LLC
freeing itself from required oversight have been supported by both AAFAF and the FOMB. See Notice of
the Puerto Rico Court of Appeals challenging the legality of the Commission's determinations, Case No.
procedures, Accordingly, this Order goes into effect immediately, The Commission does,
procurement, contracting and management of contracted services have shown to lack the
level of discipline and scrutiny expected from a public utility and required by Act 57-2014
however, invite PREPA to suggest alternative means of accomplishing the same objectives as
KLRA2017-0444, consolidated with Case No, KLRA2017-0446. Of special concern is that PREPA's attempts at
a, PREPA's History of Imprudent Procurement and Contracting
