Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority, Case No, CEPR-AP-2015-0002, September 26, 2016 ('Resolution and
Order on PREPA's IRP'') and Parts Two, Three and Four of the Commission's Resolution and Order on PREPA's
See, in general, the Part IV[A)(3) of the Final Resolution and Order, In Re: Integrated Resource Plan for the
actions, they provide an insight into the type of decisions within PREPA that fuel the
While the Commission has not made a finding regarding the prudency of these
exposure to risks and, ultimately, benefit PREPA's ratepayers, Before-the-fact review by the
shareholders, Because it has no shareholders, all of its costs must be recovered through its
Rates.
Resolution and Order on PREPA's Rates at [208 and [$211 - 218, respectively.
rates, which means that ratepayers are entirely responsible for the costs incurred by PREPA.
*Resolution and Order on PREPA's Rates, at [152.
Resolution and Order on PREPA's IRP, at [171-188.
PREPA's IRP and Petition for Rate Review), PREPA's maintenance contracts @j$ 1 4
PREPA's case is different. PREPA is a government-owned, non-profit utility; it has no
b, The case for Commission oversight
Once a costis incurred, there is no practical choice but to reflect those costs in PREPA's rates.
sought after by investor-owned utilities worried about their bottom line.
aligns the interests of shareholders and ratepayers, leading to better performance.
sw Ai
are thus paid for by the utility's shareholders, not ratepayers, This after-the-fact review is
If the Commission were to prevent PREPA from recovering a cost deemed as imprudent,
In order to be financially and operationally sustainable, a utility's rates must be
PREPA would operate at a deficit, or would have to cut other necessary spending. Neither
rrtpc
known as cost disallowance. The certainty that imprudent actions will result in lost revenues
unwilling or unable to obtaining the type of concessions from its contractors generally
prudent. In the traditional setting of an investor-owned utility, a regulator is able to induce
renewable energy providers,% and PREPA's power purchase agreement with EcoElectrica.'
Mitsubishi-Hitachi and Alstom Caribe,' PREPA's multiple power purchase agreements with
sufficient to recover all of its costs, provided such costs are deemed by the regulator to be
management culture, a product of its 70-year long self-regulated monopoly status, is
negotiations concessions from contractors that would reduce PREPA's overall costs and
result is consistent with a financially healthy and sustainable utility providing reliable
Appendix A to this Order provides detailed insight into these and other examples, As the
prudentspending and performance by preventing a utility from recovering through its rates
costs which are deemed by the regulator to be the result of imprudent actions-those costs
>'7:>----
service, This certainty of recovery of costs reduces management's incentives to seek during
Commission's concerns, Particularly, the Commission is concerned that PREPA's
