PREPA's contracting and spending under such contracts, These requirements will remain in
effect for a period of six months, beginning on the date issuance of this Order, unless the
The foregoing factors highlight the need to establish several requirements for
company whose pre-existing discipline is suboptimal. Lack of discipline and oversight can
is precisely at such times of crisis that discipline in spending can decrease-especially in a
II. REQUIREMENT FOR CONTRACT REVIEW
capacity, reliability, safety, efficiency and reasonability of electricity rate [in] Puerto Rico,'i
Commission determines otherwise through resolution or order.
See sub-section (c) of Section 6.3 of Act 57-2014.
Accordingly, the Commission is empowered to address ''all types of operations, processes
A See sub-section (l) of Section 6.3 of Act 57-2014.
See Statement of Motives of Act 57-2014 at [20.
rrtpc
PREPA's operations and implement the regulatory actions necessary to 'guarantee the
immediately after. While the Commission will subject PREPA to rigorous oversight, the
and mandates pertaining to the efficiency of the energy sector of the Island,' This broad
specifically designed to ensure discipline during the current emergency and the period
Act 57-2014 grants the Commission express and unambiguous authority to review
costs,
designed to achieve.
authority is further strengthened by the closing sentence of Section 6.3 of Act 57-2014, which
measures adopted herein are also designed to avoid unnecessary burdens which may delay
states that the Commission shall have all those ''implicit and incidental powers that are
Commission is therefore a necessary action to reduce customers' exposure to impr
c. The Commission's Authority to Require Review
The temporary measures and directives identified in Part Il of this Order are
activities and costs is a small matter compared to the benefits in terms of certainty,
491 4
sw Ai
PREPA's restoration efforts, Requiring PREPA and its contractors to account for their
emergency resources are allocated towards emergency response and restoration efforts.
Tf''f? '5% ny rernent or eessrs ormaion w roners wrry owt s nrowers nd
pertinent and necessary' to comply with its mandates, Equally vital is the Commission
The Commission recognizes that PREPA's key personnel are deeply involved in the
transparency and accountability, However, the Commission invites PREPA to suggest
alternative means of accomplishing the level of accountability that these requirements are
restoration effort, as well as efforts to renegotiate debt and secure federal resources, But it
unquestionable authority to 'require and gather [from PREPA and certified energy
delay restoration services by reducing the effectiveness and efficiency with which
