A clear description of risk-sharing provisions, including provisions describing the
allocation of responsibility for costs between PREPA and PREPA's contractor in the
sufficient to meet these requirements.
with both monthly spending estimates and clear and objective milestones,'*Spending
(5)An estimated spending schedule associated with the described scope and budget,
except for unforeseen or extraordinary circumstances, the contracted budget is
appropriate units).
A requirement wherein PREPA's contractor mustsubmit, 10 calendar days in advance
event of error on PREPA's part, error on the part of PREPA's counterparty, shared
error, and the occasion of circumstances beyond the control of PREPA and PREPA's
of a new month, monthly budget updates, with milestones accomplished and
delivery of energy (in MWh), capacity (in MW), fuel (in MMBTU and physical units), or other services (in the
1 In the case of contracts for energy, grid services, and fuel,''milestones'' means delivery of such energy, grid
counterparty.
sw i
invoice.
Commission, of any proposed amendment to the contract scope, budget and amount,
estimated spending and work to be completed in the upcoming month.
provide advanced notice, with no less than 30 calendar days in advance, to the
contract funds remaining after deducting the amount included in the most recent
rrtpc
invoice and the total amount invoiced since the contract's execution, as well as a
services, or fuel. The requirement for spending estimates associated with delivery of milestones does not apply
(10) A clear description of performance guarantees in the contract, including a
provided PREPA may seek an exception to the 30-day requirement (but not to the
11)
to such contracts, However, the schedule of labor, material, and/or service rates must include a rate for the
(3)A clear, detailed scope of the work and activities included in the contract.
description of the work completed and being invoiced and the total amount of
(7)A scope and budget amendment process, which shall include a requirement to
(8) Require invoices to be submitted to PREPA on, at least, a monthly basis in electronic
(4)A total budget associated with the described scope, provided that PREPA may seek
a o 4
advance notice requirement) in extraordinary circumstances.
(6)A schedule of all labor, material, and/or service rates associated with the contract.
contractor that they are aware of all legal and regulatory requirements and that,
requirement that work performed under the contract will conform to all applicable
from the Commission a modification of this requirement in extraordinary
(9)
format. Invoices must contain the amount invoiced under the contract since the last
circumstances.
legal and regulatory requirements, Contracts must include a certification from the
schedules must include spending estimates associated with those milestones.
