b. Contract and Invoice Oversight
rPr
-mw
sw i
44 4
For any contracts contemplated in Part Il,a of this Order, the Commission ORDERS
the following:
(1)PREPA shall submit to the Commission contracts for review within one week of
approval of contracting language by the contracting officer at PREPA. Contract
submission must include at least: the contract itself; all appendices and attachments;
a total budget estimate; a spending and milestone schedule; and a schedule of rates
for labor, materials and services, The PREPA contracting officer who approved the
contract shall certify to the Commission that the contract complies with the
requirements established in Part Il,a of this Order, None of the materials submitted
by PREPA may contain any redactions whatsoever; however, PREPA may request
confidential treatment of those documents, or portions thereof, it deems confidential,
pursuantto Commission Order CEPR-MI-2016-0009, as amended.
(2)PREPA shall designate and identify the individual within PREPA responsible for
reviewing invoices and contractor performance for each contract and whom shall act
as liaison between PREPA and the Commission on matters related to the contracts
under their supervision ('PREPA contract manager''). PREPA shall submit the name,
title, e-mail address, and phone number of this individual to the Commission
concurrently with each contract.
(3) PREPA shall notify the Commission within 7 calendar days of any change to the
identity or contact information of the PREPA contract manager.
(4)PREPA shall keep and maintain all documents related to each contract, including all
those documents identified in sub-section (1) above, in a secure Internet server, to
which server the Commission shall have access immediately upon request.
(5) Immediately upon receipt of an invoice or budget update, and of approval of such
invoices, the PREPA contract manager shall upload all relevant documentation to the
secure Internet server.
(6) Upon request from the Commission, the PREPA contract manager shall schedule a
briefing call or meeting, at a mutually convenient time, with PREPA officials and
contractor representatives familiar with the contract under review.
(7) Prior to the execution of any proposed amendment to the contract amount or scope
of work of the services to be performed, the PREPA contract manager shall notify the
Commission the intent, scope and nature of the proposed amendment no less than 30
calendar days prior to the intended date of execution of the proposed amendment.
The proposed amendment shall be deemed to have been approved if the Commission
fails to make a determination with regards to the proposed amendment within the
30-day period established before. PREPA may seek an exception to the 30-day
