CC

NLI 71

COMISION DE ENERGIA DE PUERTO RICO

PREPA’s IRP and Petition for Rate Review),© PREPA’s maintenance contracts wit? 1 4
Mitsubishi-Hitachi and Alstom Caribe,” PREPA’s multiple power purchase agreements with
renewable energy providers,’ and PREPA’s power purchase agreement with EcoEléctrica.?
Appendix A to this Order provides detailed insight into these and other examples. As the
aforementioned list shows, these concerns are not limited to contracts related to a specific

area of PREPA’s operations, but rather span multiple areas of PREPA’s business.

 

While the Commission has not made a finding regarding the prudency of these
actions, they provide an insight into the type of decisions within PREPA that fuel the
Commission’s concerns. Particularly, the Commission is concerned that PREPA’s
management culture, a product of its 70-year long self-regulated monopoly status, is
unwilling or unable to obtaining the type of concessions from its contractors generally
sought after by investor-owned utilities worried about their bottom line.

b. The case for Commission oversight

In order to be financially and operationally sustainable, a utility’s rates must be
sufficient to recover all of its costs, provided such costs are deemed by the regulator to be
prudent. In the traditional setting of an investor-owned utility, a regulator is able to induce
prudent spending and performance by preventing a utility from recovering through its rates
costs which are deemed by the regulator to be the result of imprudent actions—those costs
are thus paid for by the utility’s shareholders, not ratepayers. This after-the-fact review is
known as cost disallowance. The certainty that imprudent actions will result in lost revenues
aligns the interests of shareholders and ratepayers, leading to better performance.

PREPA’s case is different. PREPA is a government-owned, non-profit utility; it has no
shareholders. Because it has no shareholders, all of its costs must be recovered through its
rates, which means that ratepayers are entirely responsible for the costs incurred by PREPA.
Once a cost is incurred, there is no practical choice but to reflect those costs in PREPA’s rates.
If the Commission were to prevent PREPA from recovering a cost deemed as imprudent,
PREPA would operate at a deficit, or would have to cut other necessary spending. Neither
result is consistent with a financially healthy and sustainable utility providing reliable
service. This certainty of recovery of costs reduces management’s incentives to seek during
negotiations concessions from contractors that would reduce PREPA’s overall costs and
exposure to risks and, ultimately, benefit PREPA’s ratepayers. Before-the-fact review by the

 

6 See, in general, the Part IV(A)(3) of the Final Resolution and Order, In Re: Integrated Resource Plan for the
Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority, Case No. CEPR-AP-2015-0002, September 26, 2016 (“Resolution and
Order on PREPA’s IRP”) and Parts Two, Three and Four of the Commission’s Resolution and Order on PREPA’s
Rates.

7 Resolution and Order on PREPA’s Rates at [208 and J 211 - 218, respectively.

8 Resolution and Order on PREPA’s IRP, at 171-188.

9 Resolution and Order on PREPA’s Rates, at $152.
