case:17-04780-LTS DOC#794 Filed.'04/09/18 Entered:04/09/18 Desc: Main
Document Page 5 Of 9
Entries regarding WEH and submission Of its invoices appear approximately 5 times. By contrast,
entries wlated to Cobra appear approximately 140 times.
LIMITED OBJECTION
15. WEH does not dispute that Filsinger has undertaken significant work to assist
PREPA during this case. However, WEH believes it is imponant for all stakeholders in this case
to be made aware of the failure of PREP A's professionals to devote adequate time and attention
during the Application period to activities which would provide a Significant benefit to the estate.
16. WEH has provided all ofthe information requested by PREPA and its professionals
for submission to FEMA. WEH has repeatedly offered to assist with whatever is necessary to
complete the submissions. WEH has, at its own considerable expense, reworked documentation at
PREPA 's request for the FEMA submission, even when PREPA 's professionals had the necessary
documentation in its possession. WEH committed these resources and incuned these expenses
under assunnces from PREPA and its professionals that doing so would expedite PREPA's
preparation of the FEMA Submission. Additionally, PREPA's professionals requested that WEH
provide copies of 292 invoices that WEH had previously submitted to PREPA rather than seeking
such invoices from PREPA's own records. Despite WEWs prompt cooperation with the requests
for information and documentation from PREPA's pmfessionals, PREPA and its professionals
have not completed the necessary documentation for Submission of WEI-I's invoices to FEMA and
have not even committed to give WEH a date by which the submissions will occur.
17. Section 316 Of PROM ESA requires that compensation sought by professionals be
of benefit to the estate and the creditors, and be reasonable. It is not in the benefit of the estate nor
reasonable for professionals to neglect doing work which would pay immediate and significant
dividends to the estate and its creditors. As reflected in the Fee Application, Filsinger has pursued
5
4847.7466428m 3
