                                               Case: 17-04780-LTS Doc#:794 Filed:04/09/18 Entered:04/09/18 15:42:06 Desc: Main      
 Document Page 5 of 9                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                    
          Entries regarding WEH and submission of its invoices appear approximately 5 times. By contrast,                          
          entries related to Cobra appear approximately 140 times.                                                                 
          LIMITED OBJECTION                                                                                                        
          15.    WEH docs not dispute that Filsinger has undertaken significant work to assist                                     
          PREP A during this ease. However, WEH believes it is important for all stakeholders in this ease                         
          to be made aware of the failure of PREPA’s professionals to devote adequate time and attention                           
          during the Application Period to activities which would provide a significant benefit to the estate.                     
          16. WEH has provided all of the information requested by PREPA and its professionals                                     
          for submission to FEMA. WEH has repeatedly offered to assist with whatever is necessary to                               
          complete the submissions. WEH has, at its own considerable expense, reworked documentation at                            
          PREPA’s request for the FEMA submission, even when PREPA’s professionals had the necessary                               
          documentation in its possession. WEH committed these resources and incurred these expenses                               
                                                                                                                                   
          under assurances from PREPA and its professionals that doing so would expedite PREPA’s                                   
          preparation of the FEMA submission. Additionally, PREPA’s professionals requested that WEH                               
          provide copies of 292 invoices that WEH had previously submitted to PREPA rather than seeking                            
          such invoices from PREPA’s own records. Despite WEH’s prompt cooperation with the requests                               
          for information and documentation from PREPA’s professionals, PREPA and its professionals                                
          have not completed the necessary documentation for submission of WEH’s invoices to FEMA and                              
          have not even committed to give WEH a date by which the submissions will occur.                                          
          17. Section 316 of PROMESA requires that compensation sought by professionals be                                         
          of benefit to the estate and the creditors, and be reasonable. It is not in the benefit of the estate nor                
          reasonable for professionals to neglect doing work which would pay immediate and significant                             
          dividends to the estate and its creditors. As reflected in the Fee Application. Filsinger has pursued                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                5                                                                   
4847*7466-4280 3                                                                                                                    
