rcpa
(3) A clear, detailed scope of the work and activities included in the contract.
(4) A total budget associated with the described scope, provided that PREPA may seek
from the Commission a modification Of this requirement in extraordinary
circumstances.
(5) An estimated spending schedule associated with the described scope and budget,
with both monthly spending estimates and clear and objective milestones.16 Spending
schedules must include spending estimates associated with those milestones.
(6) A schedule of all labor, material, and/or service rates associated with the contract
(7) A scope and budget amendment process, which shall include a requirement to
provide advanced notice, with no less than 30 calendar days in advance, to the
Commission, Of any proposed amendment to the contract scope, budget and amount,
provided PREPA may seek an exception to the 30-day requirement (but not to the
advance notice requirement) in extraordinary circumstances.
(8) Require invoices to be submitted to PREPA on, at least, a monthly basis in electronic
format. Invoices must contain the amount invoiced under the contract since the last
invoice and the total amount invoiced since the contract's execution, as well as a
description Of the work completed and being invoiced and the total amount Of
contract funds remaining after deducting the amount included in the most recent
Invoice.
(9) A requirement wherein PREPA's contractor must submit, 10 calendar days in advance
of a new month, monthly budget updates, with milestones accomplished and
estimated spending and work to be completed in the upcoming month.
(10) A clear description of performance guarantees in the contract, including a
requirement that work performed under the contract will conform to all applicable
legal and regulatory requirements. Contracts must include a certification from the
contractor that they are aware of all legal and regulatory requirements and that,
except for unforeseen or extraordinary circumstances, the contracted budget is
sufficient to meet these requirements.
(11) A clear description Of risk-sharing provisions, including provisions describing the
allocation Of responsibility for costs between PREPA and PREPA's contractor in the
event of error on PREPA's part, error on the part of PREPA's counterparty, shared
error, and the occasion of circumstances beyond the control of PREPA and PREPA's
counterparty.
16 In the case of contracts for energy, grid services, and fuel, "milestones" means delivery of such energy, grid
services, or fuel. The requirement for spending estimates associated with delivery Of milestones does not apply
to such contracts. However, the schedule of labor, material, and/or service rates must include a rate for the
delivery Of energy (in MWh), capacity (in MW), fuel (in MMBTU and physical units), or Other services (in the
appropriate units).
